Use Cloudflare Pages to serve static assets and support `_headers`, `_redirects` and `_routes.json` (#5347)
withastro/astro: packages/integrations/cloudflare/README.md

}
```

## Headers, Redirects and function invocation routes

> Cloudflare has support for adding custom [headers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/headers/), configuring static [redirects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/redirects/) and defining which routes should [invoke functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/function-invocation-routes/). This is handled via the special files called _headers, _redirects and _routes.json which can be placed in the `public` folder to take effect.

Reviewer: I think we can help clarify the mechanics a bit here, in particular the distinction between Cloudflare looking for the files in your build output, which means using `public/`.

```suggestion
Cloudflare has support for adding custom [headers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/headers/), configuring static [redirects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/redirects/) and defining which routes should [invoke functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/function-invocation-routes/). Cloudflare looks for `_headers`, `_redirects`, and `_routes.json` files in your build output directory to configure these features. This means they should be placed in your Astro project’s `public/` directory.
```

> The _routes.json file is generated during build to prevent a function invocation on assets paths. This will be overwritten when a custom _routes.json is provided. If that is the case the static files will still be served, but the request will go through a function invocation and will count against the request limits of your Cloudflare plan.

Reviewer: Have I understood this correctly? I’d suggest making this clearer that the adapter has a default behaviour which gets overridden by any custom file. I’m also suggesting a subheading to help highlight this specific case:

```suggestion
### Custom `routes.json`

By default, `@astrojs/cloudflare` will generate a `_routes.json` file for you to prevent function invocations for static assets. Creating a custom `_routes.json` will override this default behaviour. In this case, static assets will still be served, but the request will go through a function invocation and will count against the request limits of your Cloudflare plan.
```

Author: @delucis I have rewritten this section, to include your other remark as well. It is more descriptive now on what is happening.

}
```

## Headers, Redirects and function invocation routes

> Cloudflare has support for adding custom [headers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/headers/), configuring static [redirects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/redirects/) and defining which routes should [invoke functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/function-invocation-routes/). Cloudflare looks for `_headers`, `_redirects`, and `_routes.json` files in your build output directory to configure these features. This means they should be placed in your Astro project’s `public/` directory.

Reviewer: Fun fact: the functions URL _moved_ since I reviewed this morning! Here’s the updated location:

```suggestion
Cloudflare has support for adding custom [headers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/headers/), configuring static [redirects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/redirects/) and defining which routes should [invoke functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/routing/#function-invocation-routes). Cloudflare looks for `_headers`, `_redirects`, and `_routes.json` files in your build output directory to configure these features. This means they should be placed in your Astro project’s `public/` directory.
```

Author: good catch! the old one was still under functions beta, which is now GA as of yesterday / today.

### Custom `_routes.json`

> By default, `@astrojs/cloudflare` will generate a `_routes.json` file that lists all files from your `dist` folder in the respective exclude section. This will enable Cloudflare to serve files without a function invocation and therefore not count against the request limits of your Cloudflare plan. Creating a custom `_routes.json` will override this automatic optimization and, if not configured manually, cause function invocations and therefore count against the request limits of your Cloudflare plan.

Reviewer: Couple of small language and style nits here, but looking good!

```suggestion
By default, `@astrojs/cloudflare` will generate a `_routes.json` file that lists all files from your `dist/` folder in the `exclude` array. This will enable Cloudflare to serve files without a function invocation. Creating a custom `_routes.json` will override this automatic optimization and, if not configured manually, cause function invocations that will count against the request limits of your Cloudflare plan.
```
